# Course-portfolio
I will be exploring the relevance of the album within the music industry of today by analyzing the musical style of Taylor Swift. Taylor Swift's discography, as one of the most successful musicians of this time, proves to be an interesting case study for this research as she tends to explore different musical styles and genres with each new album. My corpus will consist of her first studio album "Taylor Swift", her fourth one "Red", her sixth one "Reputation", and eighth one "Folklore". I chose these albums because they demonstrate the variety of musical styles Taylor Swift has experimented with throughout her career. Despite experimenting with other musical genres, Taylor Swift's enormous popularity did not seem to be affected. In fact, she has become increasingly more successful over the years. The tracks on the albums chosen for this research are representative in this corpus as they reflect Taylor Swift's musical style of that era in her career. The tracks have distinct features of each different musical style which make them distinctive. Tracks from the "Reputation" album are atypical in Taylor Swift's discography as it deviates the most from her regular style. This album came out after Taylor Swift had to deal with some issues in her personal life which resulted in her reputation being tarnished. This album functioned as her comeback in the music industry after taking a break. The opening track of "Reputation" "...Ready For It?" sets the tone for the rest of the album with an electropop sound with elements of trap which she had never tried before. This track seems to be the opposite of the opening track to "folklore" "the 1" which has softrock, indie, and pop elements.
